Two things that are sort
of outside scope for
this course I didn't want to go too long,
but I think are very cool.
Puppeteer for
all those that don't know Google's chrome
can be called from node in a headless way.
So folks that do like, what's it called
end to end tests on your websites.
So, maybe you'll have one actually opens
a tab logs in does stuff like that?
Puppeteer is a great tool for that.
There's also some other tools like
WebDriver, and things like that.
But when you think about the performance
API that we covered earlier, you can do
some really cool things with puppeteer
WebDriver, where you could have it log in
and record some metrics and save those
metrics or I like to do like CI workflows.
I always have this like philosophy that If
you can't lint it, test and make a CI rule
for it, you shouldn't bother somebody
on their code review about it.
You know,
it's like let the computer do that.
Don't you change?
So, one thing that I like to do is I have
a few I called my performance budget.
I think Alex Russell from Chrome,
maybe coined that term.
So, I have my performance budget.
And we use puppeteer,
puppeteer logs of performance API.
If they're greater than certain numbers,
it flags the PR.
So when you go to put a PR up,
things are a little bit too slow.
And then it's not a person yelling at you.
It's just a simple rule there.
So, there's a lot that you can do there,
combining the performance
API with Puppeteer.
Similarly with Lighthouse, they have a CI
that you can call from node as well.
So, you can do a very similar
thing where you could say,
on every PR spin up the website, hit
it with Lighthouse, and if it gets less
than 100 flag PR, you could do something
like that, which is very cool.
I think that would be a little bit more
going into like Jenkins or CI jobs and
that's a little outside of scope, but it's
just something cool to think about.cool.
So, basically the last thing that I just
wanted to talk about kind of in Lieu of
Puppeteer and lighthouse.
CI are just some other cool like
parting notes because we've
kind of gotten through
all the heavy stuff.
One thing that's really cool our Chrome
Dev Tools experiments, so if we right
click and we go into inspect and
then we go to the settings cog up here.
You'll see a lot of different stuff which
is cool that you can kind of control
the display.
You can do light mode, dark mode,
you can control how the panels
are defaulted laid out.
Remember in the sources debugging,
I said you could right click and
you could black box a script
if you didn't want it seen.
If you want to remove one that you've
black box, you can come here and do so,
the devices over here is where you
can emulate different devices.
So you got all sorts of cool
defaults that you can set,
but one that I wanted to bring
attention to is experiments.
So, before things launch, they always
come out here in this experiments tab.
And so you can take a look through
there's always really neat stuff in here,
It's like use as is enable at your
own risk [LAUGH] all this stuff so
they're not documented.
A lot of times you have to poke
around to see where they even are,
you'll enable somebody to
get on the memory tab.
No is on the performance.
I see it now.
But there's always a really cool stuff.
Some of this stuff doesn't
make it in to Dev tools.
But this is really neat stuff that you
can kinda play around with and see.
There's another little one that
I wanted to show which is,
if we go to the dot.da and show the
console drawer, and then we go to its dot,
dot, dot, there's a bunch of little
stuff that you can see here.
And so
one thing that I always like to do is,
you can like click on like rendering for
an example.
And there's all this endless
cool things that you can do, but
you can do something like paint flashing.
That's one of my favorite things to do.
Then anytime Chrome is repainting
like as i over things,
it'll show you in this cool green outline.
And so this could be really cool.
You have a big react app and
it's going kinda slow.
Sometimes it might be repainting the whole
site just when you're trying to change
a really small thing.
And this would be a really
great way to figure that out.
So you just go into it.
Dev Tools, open the console drawer and
then data dot here and
you can see all sorts of
just really neat stuff.
Yeah, there's all sorts of
amazing things that you can add.
But each one of them each one of
these just has a list of checkbox.
Here's another one that I really like.
This frame rendering stats.
It just shows the frames per second as I
scroll around and the performance of it,
things like that you can see
how much GPU memory it's using.
So, I can just like very high level,
get an idea of cool stuff like that.
So, those are probably the two I
use most often paint flashing and
the frame rendering stats, but just be
aware that there's a whole bunch of
cool little extra things that you can add.
You know, to the bottom drawer as well.
The other thing we got a lot of good
questions earlier in the workshop about,
does this work react with Angular?
So the answer is always going to be yes.
Like for example, if you do an HTML break
point, it will show you what JavaScript
caused, but we talked about, it's going to
be very deep inside the react reconcile.
Whatever.
So, I really recommend checking out these,
the separate Dev Tools.
So react has one view has one,
angular has one.
So, these are Chrome extensions
that you can use and there.
They're so good like I use this
just every day at work so for
react I this is not a react
focused class by any means, but
you can instead of you have
your regular elements tab.
But then you get a components tab and
in that it shows the actual whatever you
named your react components over here, and
shows what props they get what hooks they
have, like all this like amazing stuff.
So, while the answer is always yes,
you can use the elements and the elements,
break point, even if it's a react app.
The longer answer is,
but look how cool it is.
If you use the specific framework
Dev Tools you can get so much information.
And then we looked at the Performance Tab,
it has its own what they call profile.
It's a specific react Performance Tab.
It works the same way a recording and
you stop it, but
it'll specifically show you this is a
heavy render and it's caused by this hook,
it speaks the language a lot better.
So, if you're working on a big angular
app or react app whatever it is check out
their Dev Tools, because they're I'm this
just seems to me so much time every day.
I worked on a project ones back
in the day that was too big.
For the react Dev Tools they'd crash and
it was such a hit to my
productivity where I was man.
I would open it every day and
they'd crash every day.
So, they've fixed that since then.
But these are a really great
way to kinda work around that.
Awesome, and my very last lesson is
just kinda where to go from here.
Another huge shout out,
I think I'll be able to find
it on when it's scheduled for.
Because unfortunately, I forgot, but
there's an advanced web tools
course coming on May 17th.
From humor, he's been like for
years we've been I don't know him, but
I've known him as the other Dev Tools
content creator in this space.
There's the two of us.
So, I'm really pumped that
he's gonna be coming on.
He's really in depth performance audits
and all these like real world cases.
He's just such an expert.
So that advanced class is
going to be super cool.
The official Dev Tools Doc's are always
a good place to look for things.
They're all linked here in the project.
And then I've also linked my Twitter.
I love talking about stuff.
If any of you have reached out
to me in the past on stuff,
I'm always geek to DM about cool
Dev Tools stuff or whatever.
The Chrome Dev Tools have
a Twitter link as well.
And then my very last shout out is
there's this new initiative web dot Dev.
I'm not sure if people have heard of it.
It's like this big web community.
I think Google kind of owns it but
a lot of open source contributions
from a lot of people.
It's so cool.
They have all these topics, on such
a playground like all this cool stuff.
Web vitals progressive
web app is all free,
really high level content they worked
with, the framework teams when react and
angular and they work with a web host
teams like netlify universe, and they.
They just worked with like everybody
to get these extremely high quality
articles out there.
So, if you're looking to learn
something new, I just love this,
I read new articles on it all the time.
Otherwise, thank you so much.
I love doing these workshops and
I love meeting people and hanging out and
talking about Dev Tools.
So thank you very much for
hanging out with me today.